# Journey of a request

## Internet
The Internet is simply a massive network of computers connected together.
Imagine millions of roads connecting millions of houses.
Each house is a computer.
The roads are network connections.
The Internet is the entire road system.

## IP Address
Every connected device needs an address.
That address is called an IP address.

## Why DNS 
Humans find hard to remember IP addresses

## Ports
Analogy: 
Imagine an apartment building.

The building's address is:
21 Main Street

That's like an IP address.
But inside the building are hundreds of apartments.

Apartment 101
Apartment 202
Apartment 305

Without an apartment number, the mail carrier wouldn't know where to deliver your package.
Ports solve the same problem.

A computer might be running:

FastAPI
PostgreSQL
SSH
Redis

all at the same time.
The IP gets the request to the correct machine.
The port gets it to the correct application.

## Routers
A router is a computer that knows how to forward messages between networks. The router is like a post office: when a packet arrives, it reads the recipient address and forwards the packet to the
right recipient directly, without going through layers of relays.

## Modems
Luckily, an infrastructure already existed prior to the Internet, and that's the telephone network. To connect our network to the telephone infrastructure, we need a special piece of equipment called a modem. This modem turns the information from our network into information manageable by the telephone infrastructure and vice versa.

## Internet Service Provider (ISP)
An ISP is a company that manages some special routers that are all linked together and can also access other ISPs' routers.

## Intranets
Intranets are private networks that are restricted to members of a particular organization.

## Extranets
Extranets are very similar to Intranets, except they open all or part of a private network to allow sharing and collaboration with other organizations.

## Domain Names
Domain names are a key part of the Internet infrastructure. They provide a human-readable address for any web server available on the Internet.

## Structure of Domain Names
Ex: developer.mozilla.org (read right to left)
### TLD (Top-Level Domain)
TLDs tell users the general purpose of the service behind the domain name.
### Labels
A domain name can have many labels (or components). It is not mandatory nor necessary to have 3 labels to form a domain name.

## How does a DNS request work?
Let's take a look at the process:

1. Type mozilla.org in your browser's location bar.
2. Your browser asks your computer if it already recognizes the IP address identified by this domain name (using a local DNS cache). If it does, the name is translated to the IP address and the browser negotiates contents with the web server. End of story.
3. If your computer does not know which IP is behind the mozilla.org name, it goes on to ask a DNS server, whose job is precisely to tell your computer which IP address matches each registered domain name.
4. Now that the computer knows the requested IP address, your browser can negotiate contents with the web server.

## URL
A URL (Uniform Resource Locator) is the address of a unique resource on the internet.
### Scheme
The first part of the URL is the scheme, which indicates the protocol that the browser must use to request the resource. Ex: http,https
### Authority
The authority includes both the domain (e.g., www.example.com) and the port (80), separated by a colon. Ex: www.example.com:80
### Path to resource
Ex: /path/to/myfile.html is the path to the resource on the Web server.
### Parameters
Those parameters are a list of key/value pairs separated with the & symbol. The Web server can use those parameters to do extra stuff before returning the resource. Ex: ?key1=value1&key2=value2
### Anchor
An anchor represents a sort of "bookmark" inside the resource, giving the browser the directions to show the content located at that "bookmarked" spot. On an HTML document, for example, the browser will scroll to the point where the anchor is defined. Ex: #SomewhereInTheDocument