# HTTP-Language of the web

## Headers
Extra information about the request

Ex:
Think of mailing a package.
The package contains the gift.
The label contains information about the package.
Headers are like the shipping label.

## Body
Contains data

Ex:
The body is the package.

## Status Codes
1. 2xx Everything worked.
2. 3xx Go somewhere else.
3. 4xx Client made a mistake.
4. 5xx Server made a mistake.

## Statelessness
The server doesn't automatically remember previous requests.

Ex:
Imagine ordering pizza.
The waiter serves you.
Leaves.
Five minutes later.
You ask for dessert.
The waiter doesn't automatically remember your previous order.
HTTP works similarly.
Every request is independent.

## HTTP is stateless, but not sessionless
HTTP is stateless: there is no link between two requests being successively carried out on the same connection.

## HTTP cookies 
HTTP cookies allow the use of stateful sessions. Using header extensibility, HTTP Cookies are added to the workflow, allowing session creation on each HTTP request to share the same context, or the same state.

Make stateless, stateful

## GET
Requests using GET should only retrieve data and should not contain a request content.

## HEAD
Identical to a GET request, but without a response body.

## POST
The POST method submits an entity to the specified resource, often causing a change in state or side effects on the server.

## PUT
The PUT method replaces all current representations of the target resource with the request content.

## DELETE
The DELETE method deletes the specified resource.

## CONNECT
Establishes connection

## OPTIONS
Describes the communication options for the target resource.

## TRACE
The TRACE method makes a message test along the path to the target resource.

## PATCH
The PATCH method applies partial modifications to a resource.