# What Is a Backend?

## Backend
A backend is not a framework. It's a running program waiting to serve requests.
A backend is different from a normal program, it never stops listening for requests

## Process
A running instance of a program.

## The Operating System Is the Manager
Imagine a hotel.
Each guest has a room.
Each guest gets electricity, water, and a key.
The hotel manager ensures guests don't interfere with each other.
Your operating system does the same for processes.

It gives each process:
Memory
CPU time
Network access
File access

Without the operating system, two programs could overwrite each other's memory.

## What Happens When You Run Uvicorn?

Let's trace it step by step.

You type:

uvicorn main:app --reload

What happens?

Step 1
The operating system starts a new Python process.
↓
Step 2
Python imports your main.py.
↓
Step 3
It finds:
app = FastAPI()
↓
Step 4
Uvicorn opens a network socket on the chosen port.
↓
Step 5
The process enters a loop:

## API "schema"
In this case, OpenAPI is a specification that dictates how to define a schema of your API.
This schema definition includes your API paths, the possible parameters they take, etc.

## Data "schema"
In that case, it would mean the JSON attributes, and data types they have, etc.

## Reflection Questions
1. What surprised you most about backend applications?
-> How they interact with network
-> How they keep listening forever
2. Why doesn't a backend terminate like most Python programs?
-> There is no end of task for backend as it has to deal with infinitely numbered requests so it runs forever unless it's forcefully terminated.
3. If your CNN model takes 5 seconds to load, what would happen if you loaded it on every request?
-> For every request there will be a 5 seconds overload to additionally load the model
4. What role does the operating system play in running a backend?
-> Initiating the process
-> Isolating the backend process from other process
5. If two applications both try to use port 8000, what happens and why?
-> OS will tell that the port is occupied if one is already using it

## Engineering Thinking
### Suppose your backend crashes at 3:00 AM because of an unexpected bug. What happens to users trying to access your application? How might a production system recover?
If backend crashes then frontend won't get any response for their requests and thus users will fail to perform any relevant tast on the website.

I'm not sure. Maybe they have an alternate version running just in case their main backend crashes. Or maybe they isolate the very feature that caused the crash and temporary stop that service for fixing the bug. 