# Explain the difference between: Python script & Backend application
Python script is a seqeunce of certain python instructions that can be run as an application and terminates after completion
Backend application is a process that always keep running and keeps listening for request.

# What is a process? Give three examples besides FastAPI.
A process is a working instance of an application. A process is an application but not all application can be a process, they have to be running to be a process

Example:
Chrome,
A Game,
Visual Studio

# What does "listening on port 8000" actually mean?
It means the process/server is listening/waiting to serve for any request coming to port 8000 of the device.

# Why does the terminal appear to freeze after running: uvicorn main:app
The application reaches to a wait state and acts when a request appears

# Explain why loading the CNN during startup is better than loading it inside every prediction request.
If we load the model in the startup and store it in memory then to service a request all we need to do is just call the model and get the inference done. So for multiple request, loading time of the model will be counted just once.

But if we load every time a request is to be served, then the model loading time has to be considered every time a request comes.

# Your friend says: "FastAPI is the backend." Explain why that statement is incomplete.
FastAPI is a backend framework based on Python to program a backend. A backend however is a program in general that listens and services requests coming to it.

